# AI Enabled Self Diagnosis Predictor Tool using Tongue Image Capture with Automatic Prescription Generation



## Overview 
WHO data shows that half of the people in the world suffer due to basic health care needs as there are not enough medical facilities available in many parts of the world. It is difficult for the refugees to have all the basic health care needs and not enough doctors available for primary diagnosis. To diagnose the person there are many methods by which the doctor can predict what type disease one might be suffering from. One of those factors includes the first diagnosis done by just observing the tongue, as it’s the only visible part of the body and one of the factors which helps for primary diagnosis and widely accepted by doctors in TCM, diagnosis. It addresses for an aid to people to do primary diagnosis from tongue using AI device, like Raspberry Pi with camera, which is trained using tongue dataset of different types of tongue images like strawberry tongue, Black tongue, normal tongue, Red tongue, Swallowed tongue etc. for various symptoms of various diseases to identify the type of the tongue and based on that it will generate the prescription. The proposed research work is based on the edge computing and does not need any internet or cloud support and best suitable for installing as portable kiosk in affected areas where primary medical facility is not available. The report generated by system has primary predicted suggestions based on the tongue diagnosis using AI. More information can be found <a href="https://www.ijitee.org/wp-content/uploads/papers/v9i7s/G10080597S20.pdf" target="_blank">Google</a>
## Methodology

There are various tongue related ways to identify the disease a person is suffering from. The tongue is supposed to be the starting point for diagnosing the patient’s health. The prediction is based on various factors which includes the color, textures, and the surface of the tongue. There are various types of tongue except from the anomaly tongue like based on the textures are the Geographical Tongue, Fissure Tongue based on colors there is Yellow, tongue, Red or Angry tongue, Purple tongue, Magenta Black or Hairy Tongue. Depending on the color texture and features of the tongue the prediction is done on the basis of the same. Also,
the tongue is considered as a map according to the Chinese medicine which describes that the tip of the tongue is connected to the, the back is connected to the kidney the sides to the liver. Depending upon the different types of tongue the person’s health can be predicted. If the person has red spot on the side of the tongue it might result a person suffering from cancer or HIV, red color suggests that a person might be suffering from acute fever, magenta color describes the deficiency of riboflavin, strawberry tongue represents a scarlet fever or an acute fever hence just a looking a patients tongue the doctor is able to predict what sort of disease a person is suffering from hence the same concept here is applied to train the machine in a similar way.

#Dataset Collection

As in for the prototype version of the system the samples of tongue have been obtained varying from color, texture, shape and size. They have been labelled as fissured tongue, hairy tongue, normal tongue, HIV etc. and sorted out the images accordingly. After classifying manually, the types of tongue were given as labels. Improper and blur images were removed.





